At security, GRC is very highest level.
The three parts operate like this.
Governance is responsible for ensuring security controls are operating effectively.
Risk is responsible for measuring risk.
Compliance is responsible for making sure that
security meets compliance obligations or what we might call control objectives.
To this point, we've talked about GRC
as a collection of high level outcomes or functions.
But the practice of GRC isn't one individual process with these three components,
it's really three separate roles.
Each individual role is responsible for the outcomes that you see here.
Again, governance, ensuring controls operate effectively,
risk measuring risk, and compliance,
ensuring compliance obligations are met.
Keeping in mind that we're going to talk about each GRC function as a role,
let's highlight just a few day-to-day responsibilities
that a governance professional might encounter.
Governance professionals in many ways act as a bridge between security and business.
One of the ways that they do that is by managing many of the policies
and procedures that establish the dos and don'ts of security in a accompany.
These are things like the information security policy or
even the acceptable use policies that literally dictate how security operates,
and how end users should treat information and technology assets.
They also help in aligning security strategy with business strategy,
and as I've mentioned before,
they spend a great deal of time designing tests
to measure whether or not security controls are operating as intended.
The risk professional, they're are laser focused on risk.
They're responsible for identifying security risks or threats,
measuring the organization's exposure to the threats,
and then reporting risk to management.
Then finally, they have to work together with stakeholders to identify
ways of mitigating unacceptable risk and ensuring that those activities are completed.
Now, finally, you have compliance.
The main role of the compliance professional is to identify
organization's security compliance obligations and then
assess the organization's level of compliance against those obligations.
In other words, understand what you must
do and then measure whether or not you're actually doing it.
They also assist operational security in becoming more efficient by designing
controls that might meet one or more of the organization's security obligations.
We'll talk much more about all of those obligations in another lesson.
Finally, in this lesson,
I want to spend just a moment on operational security.
We've said that term a number of times.
When I say operational security,
I mean the folks that are actually installing,
operating, and monitoring security controls.
We haven't talked much about their role,
but now that you have a high level overview of each GRC role,
it's important to talk about what GRC isn't.
GRC roles normally have no involvement in
day-to-day control activities other than writing policies and procedures,
which if you remember,
I'm calling those preventive controls.
Everything else though, configuring firewalls,
configuring other equipment, all of that is off limits.
The reason for that is that GRC roles serve to provide a level of oversight.
Following the principle of segregation of duties,
an individual can't be responsible for assessing their own work.
You want to have independent monitors.
That's the role that GRC plays as it relates to operational security.